adding custom worldtypes round 2 (#84)
QuiltMC/developer-wiki: wiki/misc/world_types/en.md

---
title: Adding a Custom World Preset
index: 0
---

# Adding custom world presets
If your mod completely overhauls Minecraft's worldgen, you'll likely want to create a custom worldtype to offer users the option to use your worldgen or MC's vanilla worldgen.
Now, what is a custom worldtype you may ask? World types define world generation options for Minecraft worlds. They let you change the make-up of your Minecraft worlds by configuring how world generation behaves.

Some examples of world types already built into MC are "Amplified", "Super Flat", "Single Biome", and "Large Biomes".

## Specifying which dimensions your worldtype applies to

The following block shows how to specify which dimensions your world preset will apply to. In `"dimension"`, a `"minecraft:overworld"` object is required.
The dimension `type` can be a built-in preset or a custom dimension preset you implement in your mod.

> `src/main/resources/data/minecraft/example_mod/worldgen/world_preset`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`src/main/resources/data/minecraft/example_mod/worldgen/world_preset`:
```

```json
{
	"dimensions": {
		"minecraft:overworld": {
			"type": "example_mod:example_mod_dimension_type"
		}
	}
}
```

## Configuring how the worldgen works in your worldtype

`generator` is where you specify how the worldgen in your world preset behaves. The `type` is a "generator ID" and the following are valid generator IDs:
 - `noise`

In `biome_source`, you specify how biomes generate. The `type` parameter here is what kind of biome generation will be used.
Valid generation types:
 - `multi_noise`

If the biome source `type` happens to be `minecraft:multi_noise`, Minecraft will use 3D biomes in the overworld and the nether.
The `preset` can be `minecraft:overworld` or `minecraft:nether`. More info about this can be found [here](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Custom_dimension#Multi-noise_biome_source_parameter_list).

> `src/main/resources/data/minecraft/example_mod/worldgen/world_preset/example_mod_preset.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`src/main/resources/data/minecraft/example_mod/worldgen/world_preset/example_mod_preset.json`:
```

```json
{
	"dimensions": {
		"minecraft:overworld": {
			"type": "minecraft:overworld",
			"generator": {
				"type": "minecraft:noise",
				"biome_source": {
					"type": "minecraft:multi_noise",
					"preset": "minecraft:overworld"
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
```

## Making your worldtype accessible

In order for your world preset to show in the "create a new world" screen, you will need to make a file called `normal.json` in `resources/data/minecraft/tags/worldgen/world_preset` and populate it with the following.

> `src/main/resources/data/minecraft/tags/worldgen/world_preset/normal.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`src/main/resources/data/minecraft/tags/worldgen/world_preset/normal.json`:
```

---
title: Adding a Custom World Preset
index: 0
---

# Adding custom world presets
If your mod completely overhauls Minecraft's worldgen, you'll likely want to create a custom worldtype to offer users the option to use your worldgen or MC's vanilla worldgen.

> Now, what is a custom worldtype or world preset you may ask? World types/world presets define world generation options for Minecraft worlds. They let you change the make-up of your Minecraft worlds by configuring how world generation behaves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, what is a custom world type you may ask? *World types*, also called *world presets* define world generation options for Minecraft worlds. They let you change the make-up of your Minecraft worlds by configuring how world generation behaves.
```

---
title: Adding a Custom World Type
index: 0
---

# Adding custom world types

> If your mod completely overhauls Minecraft's worldgen, you'll likely want to create a custom worldtype to offer users the option to use your worldgen or MC's vanilla worldgen.

Reviewer 2: (Similarly, `worldgen` -> `world generation` would probably be a good idea)

> Now, what is a custom world type you may ask? *World types*, also called *world presets* define world generation options for Minecraft worlds. They let you change the make-up of your Minecraft worlds by configuring how world generation behaves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, what is a custom world type you may ask? *World types*, also called *world presets*, define world generation options for Minecraft worlds. They let you change the make-up of your Minecraft worlds by configuring how world generation behaves.
```
I know I wrote this but it has bad grammar lol

Valid generation types:
 - `multi_noise`: Similar to overworld generation
 - `fixed`: Like selecting "Single Biome" in world creation
 - `the_end`: This is the generation the end dimension uses (not really applicable here)
 - `checkerboard`: Places biomes in a checkerboard style

If the biome source `type` is `minecraft:multi_noise`, Minecraft will use 3D biomes in the overworld and the nether.
The `preset` can be `minecraft:overworld` or `minecraft:nether`. More info about this can be found [in the article about custom dimensions in the Minecraft wiki](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Custom_dimension#Multi-noise_biome_source_parameter_list).

`src/main/resources/data/minecraft/example_mod/worldgen/world_preset/example_mod_preset.json`:
```json
{
	"dimensions": {
		"minecraft:overworld": {
			"type": "minecraft:overworld",
			"generator": {
				"type": "minecraft:noise",
				"biome_source": {
					"type": "minecraft:multi_noise",
					"preset": "minecraft:overworld"
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
```
This will generate a world relatively similar to that of MC's default overworld generation.

> ## Making your worldtype accessible

Reviewer 2: This section could use a note about how to select custom world types on a dedicated server (`server.properties`)

Reviewer 3: was this fixed? i dont see any reference to this

Valid generation types:
 - `multi_noise`: Similar to overworld generation
 - `fixed`: Like selecting "Single Biome" in world creation
 - `the_end`: This is the generation the end dimension uses (not really applicable here)
 - `checkerboard`: Places biomes in a checkerboard style

If the biome source `type` is `minecraft:multi_noise`, Minecraft will use 3D biomes in the overworld and the nether.
The `preset` can be `minecraft:overworld` or `minecraft:nether`. More info about this can be found [in the article about custom dimensions in the Minecraft wiki](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Custom_dimension#Multi-noise_biome_source_parameter_list).

`src/main/resources/data/minecraft/example_mod/worldgen/world_preset/example_mod_preset.json`:
```json
{
	"dimensions": {
		"minecraft:overworld": {
			"type": "minecraft:overworld",
			"generator": {
				"type": "minecraft:noise",
				"biome_source": {
					"type": "minecraft:multi_noise",
					"preset": "minecraft:overworld"
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
```
This will generate a world relatively similar to that of 's default overworld generation.

> On a dedicated server, you navigate to your `server.properties` file and find `level-type`. It will have `minecraft\:normal` as the default value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On a dedicated server, you navigate to your `server.properties` file and find the `level-type` field. By default, the value is `minecraft:normal`. Changing this to the ID for your world type (`example_mod:example_mod_preset`) will use that instead.
```
